[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Every person will have a
story about a moment of that
recognition that things
aren't the way they seem.
That the conceptual model that
you and I became conspirators
to about what is
reality is actually
this fragile, fragile veil we
put up against the unknown.
And if we put it up
really out of fear,
we make it impermeable
out of fear.
What seems to have
gotten screwed up
is the balance in us.
That you started
out when you were
born with this
undifferentiated self.
There weren't a boundary saying
this is me and that's other.
That was something you learned.
Now, the fact that you
learned it was necessary.
And you learned it and
it had a genetic origin,
it had a environmental origin
because your parents all
thought they were somebody,
and they went, took you
into somebody training.
I mean, that was part of
the culture you lived in.
And they thought,
I'll train my child
to be somebody, that's the
best thing I can do for them.
And the more special you are,
the better somebody you are.
So you and I got trained
into somebody specialness,
because this is a culture
of somebodys where
your identity is with
your individuality,
not your identity as part
of the unity of things.
I mean, it's interesting
that people are waking up
to their interdependence, while
other cultures always lived
with their interdependence.
The Native Americans always
knew they were interdependent.
The balance that got off
was that we started out
with this undifferentiated
self and we so well learned
our separateness that
our separateness veiled
over the connection we had
to the unity of all things.
Once we awaken to realize
you're part of everything,
that it's all relative
reality, that there's
a something behind it all,
it's all one God, whatever
metaphor you want to use,
you're awakening back
into the balance.
And at first, when you
recognize that there's
a unity behind the diversity,
the whole awakening metaphor
tends to pull you towards
pushing away at the diversity
and grabbing at the unity
because you've lost it so far
and you want to taste
it again, because when
you experience the unity, you
feel at home in the universe.
But then you realize that to
just acknowledge the unity,
to acknowledge the
non-conceptual part
of your identity, to
acknowledge your divinity
and to push away your
diversity, to push away
your incarnation as a separate
entity, that's imbalance, too.
And you then begin to
see the exquisiteness
of the human incarnate; the
potential of, as Christ said,
being in the world, but not
of the world; the potential
of being fully yourself as
a diverse, unique entity
and fully everything; that
you and I have the capacity
to live on more than one plane
of reality simultaneously.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And the predicament is that
part of our identity, which
is known by our senses
and our thinking mind,
those parts have
fascinated us so much
that they are like loud trumpets
that have overwhelmed us
so that we haven't heard what
the Quakers call the still
small voice within, which is
that part of ourselves which
is not object, but
which is subject.
It's like the flashlight, which
you shine on this and that
and you say, oh, it's that,
oh, it's that, oh, it's that.
But the one thing the flashlight
can't do is shine on itself.
So that you never see
that which is seeing.
So that part of you that is
just the seer, the wisdom,
the source, the
subject, you never
notice it because
it's not noticeable.
It is just be-able.